---
layout: post
title: Starting management the wrong way
---

I always wondered how you end up in management. It seems in most industries, the most logical career advancement is away from doing the stuff you love into management. 
Sometimes you hear "people complain about having become a manager":http://thisdeveloperslife.com/post/1-0-9-management and I always wondered: "How on earth did you end up there if you didn't want to". 

*Today I realized: You don't get asked. And you don't get a real choice in this either.*

Career starts out usually in either two ways:
# You are in a small shop and do a lot of 1-man projects on your own
# You are in a bigger company where you work for someone else on projects

Both involve doing what you signed up for in the first place: Implement stuff to the best of your abilities and learn from the experience.
The problem starts when you did the above a few times and where in the "bigger company" situation. You start to get more responsibility about how your projects/features are done, and soon afterwards you get a task that's bigger than what you can easily handle yourself.
So you run to your manager and tell him that you can't fulfill certain deadlines, or that some feature is unrealistic.

And then comes the dreaded answer everyone in management likes to give: "We'll add someone to the project to help you"
Voila, you've just become a manager!

When this happens you typically get someone who is completely new to the project and it's requirements/structure, and at worst someone completely new to your architecture. 
Expecting quality work out of a junior from day one is completely unrealistic so you typically have two choices:
# Tell him to do something minor that is somewhat similar to something you already did (leading him to start on the copy&paste path)
# Drop everything you where doing yourself and start teaching him how you want things done. 

The problem here is: The first time this happens is usually when your project is already late and you need to make time up, 
